+++
date = "2016-09-24T17:00:00"
draft = false
tags = ["web", "hosting", "hugo"]
title = "Setting up this webspace"
math = false
+++

As this was my today's project, I will lose some words about how I set up this site. 

## Hosting
I am hosting at [uberspace](https://uberspace.de/), a very hipster shared hoster, which let's you choose your price yourself. Their hosting principle is a multi-user linux environment, where you automatically get a user assigned and some stuff provisioned. It relies on linux unprivileged users as the only isolation from other users on the same machine, so I would not recommend using the space for anything critical. However, I like the setup and how everything is documented, so I chose it as a hoster. I will just hope no other user on my machine uses a privilege escalation to put a dickbutt on my page...

But everything was up to date, so I would rate the risk as pretty low. 

## Website generation
This website is generated by [hugo](https://gohugo.io/), a really easy to dive in static-website generator. It creates your site by using Markdown and predefined (or self-modified) themes, putting out a ready-to-use website. It took me roughly 30 minutes to get into it, and I am really considering to use this for my next website-projects aswell. I don't really like wordpress and other, full-blown competitors, as hacking down some markdown is just faster and more intuitive to me than using a fully fledged WYSIWYMPG-editor (What You See Is What You Might Possibly Get). Also it features a nice way to locally host a draft of the site (with live-codereloading and millisecond build times)

## Deployment
I build the files locally with `hugo` and transfer them, including the /public folder, to my webserver via git. I found that would be the easiest way to keep my local instance and the remote git up to date.

## DNS
[namecheap](http://namecheap.com), despite having a dubious name, turned out to be quite a good DNS registrar. So far I am pleased.